## Improving communication efficiency between UAV and it's ground segment
**Abstract:**
*Using high gain, directional antennas in order to increase link range and quality is a widely used practice in micro-wave radio-frequency communication. The more directional the antenna is the more focused the electro-magnetic power will be.Hence continuous optical view between the antennas and precise antenna moving and aiming become a critical asset. This is no different in case of point-to –point microwave links between UAVs and their ground control stations. But the UAVs are in continuous movement and they are capable of executing rapid maneuvers. Therefore,a need arises for a device which can track automatically the UAV and point the ground station’s antenna at it con-tinuously. In this paper I present in detail a GPS based automatic UAV antenna tracker, which has been developed. I describe the necessary algorithms, and finally how it was tested both with generated and real life inputs.*
**Keywords:UAV,automatic antenna tracker,ground station**
url.: https://folyoirat.ludovika.hu/index.php/reptudkoz/article/view/276/43

## Analysis of Ukrain's crowdfunded military purpose octocopters
**Abstract:**
*Due to the Eastern Ukrainian war several groups has been established in Ukraine. Their definitive goal to help the Ukrainian military. In this article the author analyzes in details and demonstrates the drones built and used by one of these irregular military groups, namely the Aerorozvidka. The analysis based on their appearances in the news, social media, and interviews with the members. The aim of this publication is to promptly specify those widespread off-the-shelf parts which are widely used in civilian and industrial UAV applications and this self-organized group is using also for air reconnaissance and information gathering on a regular basis in order to support the Ukrainian army, their artillery and the decision making processes.*
**Keywords: UAV, Aerorozvidka, crowdfunded war, war startup**

## Challenges of defense against drones
**Abstract:**
*As a result of technological advances in recent years, basically anyone can afford an unmannedaerial vehicle. The complexity of the tasks, performed by drones is increasing. Their flighttime, flight range, and other abilities are rising as their prices are decreasing. Today the linebetween civilian and military drones is getting blurred. There are plenty of evidence for civiliandrones, intended for recreational or industrial purposes are not only used for peaceful purposes.The proliferation of commercial off-the-shelf drones means emerging risk. The public and thescientific world is divided by the widespread of commercially available small aircraft systems.Some people welcome the increasing capability of drones and they would use them as soon aspossible, despite the many existing unanswered questions. Others are doubting the sustainability of the commercial drone trends. Drones cannot be treated as toys anymore. It is necessaryto find viable methods and solutions to ensure safety. Therefore the aim of this research is toanalyze the requirements and methods of identification and countering drones. Investigate thecurrently existing capabilities and propose possible solutions to mitigate the risks.*
**Results:** 
*In the course of my research, I found that the process of defense against drones can bedivided into a couple of well-defined steps. One of these is the identification which is a crucialand important decision making point, regarding the whole defense process. I analyzed andsystematized the requirements and the currently available tools and possible methods of bothprotection against drones, and drone identification from multiple perspectives. I also found thatthere is no a single, widely accepted way of remote drone identification and the regarding lawsare yet to be implemented.*
**Conclusions:** 
*The wide spread of commercial drones means emerging, new kind of threatsdespite the many positive use cases of drone technology. These threats must be mitigated tomaintain safety and to keep the drone industry on a developing track. To this end new laws,and the supporting technology is required, especially in the field of remote drone identification,drone detection and disabling drones.*

**Acknowledgements:** SUPPORTED BY THE ÚNKP-19-3-I-NKE-69 NEW NATIONAL EXCELLENCEPROGRAM OF THE MINISTRY FOR INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY.

**Keywords: countering drones, remote drone identification, CUAV, RID**
